# TabSyn for Single Table Data Overview

## Introduction
This folder contains Jupyter notebooks and code samples focused on using the TabSyn algorithm for single table data synthesis. Notebooks and code files provide in-depth guidance on TabSyn’s unique approach, along with metrics to evaluate the quality of generated data.


## Notebooks
Here you will find the following Jupyter notebooks:
1. **TabSyn** - This notebook covers tabsyn implementation for single table synthesis. It includes a brief description of the algorithm, its implementation, and a demonstration of how to use it for sampling synthetic data. **Use this notebook when you want to load and sample from models stored in the `train` folder for both the `White Box MIA on single table` and `Black-box MIA on single table` competitions.**
2. **TabSyn_wb_dev_final** - **This notebook is specifically designed to load and sample from models stored in the `dev` and `final (eval)` folders for the `White Box MIA on single table` competition. It performs the same function as the `TabSyn` notebook but is tailored for specific models used in the whitebox setting (dev and final).**
3. **evaluate_synthetic_data** - This notebook covers the evaluation of synthetic data generated by TabSyn. In order to assess the quality of synthetic data, we report various evaluation metrics including low-dimensional statistics, high-dimensional statistics, evaluation of the synthetic data on downstream tasks and privacy metrics. This notebook includes a brief description of these evaluation metrics, their implementation, and a demonstration of how to use them to evaluate the quality of synthetic data.

## Code
This section includes code structure and description of the files:

* [data_info/](./data_info) ==> contains the json data information file that provides details about various availabe dataset and their attributes.
* [figures/](./figures) ==> contains the figures to be used in the notebooks.
* [scripts/](./scripts) ==> contains the running scripts.
    * [download_dataset.py](./scripts/download_dataset.py) ==> contains the code to download the data.
    * [process_dataset.py](./scripts/process_dataset.py) ==> contains the code to preprocess the data.
    * [main.py](./scripts/main.py) ==> contains the code to train the TabSyn algorithm for synthesizing and sampling.
    * [impute.py](./scripts/impute.py) ==> contains the code to trained tabsyn on imputation task.
    * [eval](./scripts/eval) ==> contains the code to evaluate the synthetic data generated by TabSyn.
        * [eval_dcr.py](./scripts/eval/eval_dcr.py) ==> contains the code to report privacy metrics.
        * [eval_density.py](./scripts/eval/eval_density.py) ==> contains the code to report low-order statistics.
        * [eval_detection.py](./scripts/eval/eval_detection.py) ==> contains the code to report whether the synthetic data and real data are distinguishable.
        * [eval_impute.py](./scripts/eval/eval_impute.py) ==> contains the code to report imputation quality.
        * [eval_mle.py](./scripts/eval/eval_mle.py) ==> contains the code to report machine learning efficiency.
        * [eval_quality.py](./scripts/eval/eval_quality.py) ==> contains the code to report high-order statistics.
* [src](./src) ==> contains the source code.
    * [tabsyn](./src/tabsyn) ==> contains the code for TabSyn algorithm. This directory includes the implementaion of architecture for both variational auto-encoder and latent diffusion model, training vae, trainining diffusion model and sampling.
    * [data.py](./src/data.py) ==> contains the code for data processing and loading.
    * [metrics.py](./src/metrics.py) ==> contains the code for metrics used in training.
    * [utils.py](./src/utils.py) ==> contains the code for utility functions.


## Getting Started
To get started with the materials in this topic:
1. Ensure you have followed the reference to the installation guide and environment setup in the `README` file.
2. `[New Update]` Choose the right Notebook:
- If you want to explore the TabSyn method or load and sample from models stored in the `train` folder for both the `White Box MIA on single table` and `Black-box MIA on single table` competitions, use the `TabSyn` notebook.
- If you want to load and sample from models stored in the `dev` and `final (eval)` folders for the `White Box MIA on single table` competition, use the `TabSyn_wb_dev_final` notebook.
3. Finally using the notebook `evaluate_synthetic_data.ipynb` to evaluate the synthetic data generated by TabSyn algorithm.
